Hello and welcome.
In this lecture I want to talk about implementing the Singleton using a double checked locking principle.
This will improve upon synchronized approach.
It will limit increase performance.
Remember that with the synchronized approach a handled two threads are handled the race condition.
But it also increased performance because other threads may be waiting.
And also as always checking the esteem even after the first time even though it did it to see if the
Singleton was no.
So this will improve upon that.
This principle basically says that you will use a synchronized block inside the if condition with an
additional check to ensure that only one instance of the singleton class is created.
You don't ever create more than one instance which is good.
The intent is to optimize away unnecessary locking.
So increasing performance the synchronization check happens at most one time so it will not be a bottleneck.
So eliminating that check.
More than once because really the only relevancy as we mentioned in the synchronized approach is after
that first check in the eye after the object's been created.
You don't need to keep checking it you can just return it.
So we'll solve two problems here and you want to use double check locking to reduce the use of synchronization
and then get instance so you don't have the bottleneck with double check locking.
We first check to see if an instance is created and if not then we synchronize.
We only synchronize the first time through just exactly what we want.
Let's take a look at that and intelligence to see exactly how that works.
I'm an open up ontology.
I've already create a project that's a copy of our Singleton example from previous lectures mainly the
synchronized approach copy we're going to modify it a bit.
So I'm going to say open and we're going to open up the Singleton
copy.
This will be the Singleton double check locking example.
And again there's nothing really new in here other than the lazy initialization approach so we still
have our static unique instance.
The one thing we're gonna change is we're going to change this to have use the volatile keyword.
So we're gonna say.
Private volatile right.
And we know what this keyword does right.
Your job experts.
It's used for a synchronization with the synchronized keyword.
So when you have concurrently running threads in a Java application basically when you say remember
variables volatile the data will be synchronized synchronized across all threads.
So that's the first change you're going to make.
I was gonna make that verbal volatile.
We're still gonna have our constructor that's private.
We're still going to have our unique instance we're no longer gonna have the synchronized keyword for
our method.
We'll take that out and what we're gonna do is we're gonna put the synchronization instead of on the
method we're gonna synchronize inside the if statement.
So what we're gonna do is we're gonna say after the if unique instances now we're gonna say synchronized
on the singleton class
and this means we're only going to synchronize
the first time through
and then then we're gonna basically check for any unique instance again.
So here are gonna say if unique instance equals equals no.
And then in that case we'll we will create a unique instance and we will close our other statements
and I'm gonna use brackets here just so it's more so it's clear even though we only have one statement
inside the F
and then something like that.
Okay.
So do you see what we changed.
We made the member verbal volatile we use synchronize instead of the method we used inside our statement
so that we ensure it only does it the first time through and then we check for null again.
All right so I just want to reiterate again just so you understand the volatile keyword ensures that
multiple threads handle the unique instance variable correctly when it is being initialized to a single
instance.
So if performance is an issue in the get instance method then this method is implementing the Singleton
can drastically reduce the over it.
That's why we're adding this right because of the performance problems with the synchronized method
one of the issues with the double check locking approach is it doesn't work in Java one point four earlier
so unfortunately in the Java is one point for an earlier many of the JVM to achieve Java Virtual Machine
contain implementations of the volatile Q Would that allow improper synchronization for double check
locking so if you have to use a JVM rather than Java 5 you may want to consider other methods of implementing
your Singleton other than the double double check locking approach but again this double check locking
provides for unnecessary locking and is avoided by adding another task before creating the object this
other if statement inside synchronized and this will support multi threaded environments and also increase
performance by getting rid of the necessary if check and getting rid of the blocking.
Thank you.